all right good afternoon folks um hope
you've enjoyed the uh the sessions
between now and when we last saw you uh
this morning uh for this afternoon's
keynote or fireside chat I suppose uh
I'm about to introduce somebody who
needs a little introduction uh although
a fun fact uh that you may not know
about Jensen hang is that he's been a
CEO of Nvidia for 31 years this month
making him the longest serving CEO in
the technology industry and guess
therefore logically NE
[Applause]
so J John and I have only been doing for
a mere 14 years so you know even if we
even if we double that we'll still be
second to him
um uh Jensen uh well we'll talk about
this on stage uh attended the onita
Baptist Institute in Kentucky we'll
definitely be asking him about it um
Oregon State worked as a waiter at
Denny's uh
then Denny's close to here actually um L
LSI logic and then AMD which is of
course now uh run by his um first cousin
once removed we'll definitely be asking
about that uh before he founded Nvidia
in
1993 and um en nvidia's market cap was 8
billion uh when stripe launched in
2011 um and it is now of course more
than 200 times that um so he's been busy
since please welcome to the stage Jensen
[Applause]
[Music]
Wong hey
everybody so you watched the kyote
earlier I did I've never seen a duet
before so well I've never seen a duet
before you were you were you were so
synchronized it seemed like the two of
you knew each other it's incredible some
some some acquaintance um okay you've
been doing Keynotes uh you know a long
time you are um you know the keynote
goat uh so give us stop it give us your
like we don't have you know even a
signature outfit yet we're just amateurs
here um so give us it's because you're
still
young well give us give us your Keynote
performance review like what what' you
think I thought it was A+ I thought it
was A+ I was uh really
did uh you you explained you explained
perfectly uh the uh the the purpose of
the company uh what inspires you guys uh
what keeps you guys up what makes you
work so hard uh the ecosystem that you
serve uh the incredible platform you
built uh the amazing contribution you
make to the world's economy uh it's
incredible I thought it was great there
was a whole bunch of technology stuff
feature stuff money stuff I didn't
understand any of that but but um
something about a cyk or something what
was
that kyc kyc
yeah I that was it's a big deal in our
world is that right Kentucky Fried
Chicken we take care of kyc so that you
can associate us with Kentucky Fried
Chicken okay got it um did you um
software Define financial services this
this idea did that did that make sense
to you well first of all I think it a
giant
idea do you do you know where it came
from you're gonna tell me um so um Jens
and I were catching up maybe the part
that I the part that I loved was how you
realized in the very beginning that that
uh uh Financial payments was about code
not Finance I thought that was
incredible and you explained that the
first time we met so so the um time were
catching up 18 months ago or so and you
know I guess it was a couple years since
we'd last spoken so he was kind of
asking for the update on stripe and I
was explaining um and uh and you said oh
so it's like software to find networking
but for money um and that was still
ricocheting around in my mind so thaty
that that that's where we got to this
idea um uh for software Define final
services so I hope we don't need to pay
a licensing fee for that you got zero
equity for that good idea all right um
you guys do know okay I was thinking
about this uh you know Tesla's earnings
were of course yesterday and uh and Elon
um announced that I think Tesla is going
to have
85,000 uh h100s uh by the end of this
year H I was just reflecting on you
know quite a success to sort of build a
business where CEOs kind of compete with
each other to announce you know who has
spent more buying your product so I
think you've um I think you've done
something quite impressive but anyway I
actually want to start out talking a
little bit about all of my CEO friends
they all have
most so I want to start out um talking a
little bit about um a remark you made at
a uh Stanford event uh recently speaking
of GSB I think um and uh you uh you said
um I wish upon you ample doses of pain
and
suffering
elaborate well uh let's see there there
is a Mis
understanding um there's a phrase that
said you should you should choose uh
your career based on your
passion and usually usually people
connect passion with
happiness and uh I think there's
something missing in that that nothing
there is wrong but there's something
missing and the reason for that is
because if you want to do great things
and I I know this to be true about you
uh creating stripe and by the by the way
this is this is one of the one of the
world's finest CEOs young as he may be
yep you guys know I've met a lot of CEOs
I've I've heard about a lot of companies
and this is genuinely one of the one of
the world's great Visionary companies
and and and so anyways I just want to
say that um as the reason why he I I
just I love what no more compliments
allowed makes me makes us terribly
uncomfortable I know I could tell I
could I could see him he's starting to
sweat
and and so so the thing is when you you
want to build something something
great uh it's not easy to do and when
you're doing something that's not easy
to do you're not always enjoying it I
don't love every day of my job I don't
think every day brings me joy nor does
Joy have to be the definition of a good
day and every day I'm not happy every
year I'm not happy about the company um
but I love the company every single
second and and so I think that that what
people misunderstand is is somehow the
best jobs are the one that brings you
happiness all the time I I don't think
that that's right you have to you have
to you have to suffer you have to
struggle you have to Endeavor you have
to do those hard things and work through
it in order to really appreciate what
you've done and there are no such thing
that are great that was easy to do and
so by Def by defin I would I would say
therefore um I I wish upon you greatness
which by my way of saying it I wish upon
you plenty of plain and suffering and
so anything in your upbringing that
taught you that idea or is it just
somehow you know innate to your makeup
I didn't realize I had to lay down for
this
uh I'm about to tell you things I've
never told anyone not even my
[Applause]
family I you know I I was an immigrant
and when I came in 1973 um my I was nine
my older brother was uh almost 11 and
this was a foreign country and um I
there it was there was nothing easy
about that and um uh we also grew up in
a uh really really terrific parents but
but uh we weren't wealthy and so they
worked hard they work hard today um and
so they passed along a lot of a lot of
Life Lessons by working hard now I I had
I had all kinds of jobs you know and and
um we went to a we went to a school that
was that that included a lot of chores
is in Kentucky yeah Kentucky onita
Baptist Institute
and um
I I don't think it's the same as MIT
that I is not the it's the same word but
it's different it's a different type of
Institute um but my Institute required
you to go to school um and we it was a
dormatory and so there were a lot of
chores I was the youngest kid in school
and so all of the other kids got the
hard work they had to work in the
tobacco farm and I got the easy job I
was 9 years old and so after they left I
had to clean all the bathrooms
I I never felt that I got the easy job
you know because what they left behind
was UN you can't unse that kind of
stuff but that was my job and that was
my job and so I did it delightfully and
then then um I had plenty of other jobs
and uh Denny's was one of them and I I
start started out as a dishwasher and
became a bus boy and became a waiter and
and I I loved every one of them I loved
every one of them somehow somehow uh
I've always found uh
you
know I want to say Joy but that's not
quite right I've just I just everything
that I was doing I I wanted to do do the
best I could and and maybe that was kind
of ingrained from the very beginning but
I was definitely the best uh bathroom
cleaner the world's ever seen I'm sure
of it yeah so if we fast forward just a
little bit um to uh the Nvidia of today
so how large is your leadership team how
large is your your leadership
team nvidia's leadership team is 60 plus
60 people yeah and they all report to
you they yeah they all report to 60
direct reports 60 direct reports yeah
which is not conventionally considered a
best
practice I agree that the best practice
kind of I'm certain that's the best
practice it's not conventional but I'm
certain it's the best practice
I'm gonna and by the end of this I'm
going to convince all of you to have 60
people on your direct
reports the floor is
yours uh the the reason the first of all
first of all the reason is because the
layer of hierarchy in your company
really matters information uh really
matters I I believe that I believe that
your contribution to uh to the work
should not be based on the privileged
access to
information I don't do one-on ones and I
don't my my staff is quite large and
almost everything that I say I say to
everybody all at the same time and the
reason for that is because I don't
really believe there's any information
that I operate on that uh somehow only
one or two people should care about and
this is this is these are the challenges
of the company or this is the problem
I'm trying to solve or this is the
direction we're trying to go into um
these are the new Endeavors this isn't
working that's working well uh you know
and so all of this type of information
everybody should be able to
hear I love that everybody's working off
of the same song sheet I love that that
there's no privileged access to
information I love that we're able to
all contribute to solving a problem and
when when you have 60 people in a room
and oftentimes well my staff my staff
meetings are once every other week um
it's it's all based on issues whatever
issues we have everybody's there working
on it at the same time uh everybody
under everybody heard the reasoning of
the problem everybody heard the
reasoning of the solution everybody
heard everything and so so that empowers
people I believe that when you give
everybody equal access to information it
empowers people and so that's number one
empowering number two
uh if the if the CEO's direct staff is
60 people the number of layers you've
removed in a company is probably
something like seven you know depending
on how it is is it 60 at every layer or
only 60 as in like if I'm a direct if
I'm one of the fortunate 60 um do I also
have 60 direct reports or okay so I also
don't think I don't think that that's
scalable downward and the reason for
that is because you need you need more
and more supervision uh depending on
depending on certain levels and at at
the eaff level at the eaff level if
you're so unfortunate to be serving on
Nvidia eaff uh it's very unlikely you
need a lot of
managerial you know and so I rarely find
myself having to um you know stand up
for conventional wisdom uh but uh if I
was to kind of Steal man the other side
I'd say well one-on ones are where you
provide coaching where you maybe talk
through goals together personal goals
career advancement you know what have
you um where maybe you give feedback on
something that you see somebody
systematically not doing so well and so
forth there's all these things that kind
of when is again conventionally supposed
to uh do in the one-on-one do you not do
those things or do you do them in a
different way really good question I do
it right
there I give you feedback right there in
front of
everybody and in fact in fact this is
really a big deal first of all feedback
is learning feedback is learning for
what reason are you the only person who
should learn
this now you created the
conditions because of some mistake that
you made or silliness that you you
brought upon yourself
um we should all learn from that
opportunity so you created the
conditions but we should all learn from
it does that make sense and so so for me
to explain to you um why that doesn't
make sense or how I differ from it not
as half the time I'm not right but but
for me to reason through it in front of
everybody helps everybody learn how to
reason through it and so the issue the
the the problem I have with one ones and
taking feedback aside is you deprive a
whole bunch of people that same learning
learning from mistakes other people's
mistakes is the best way to learn why
learn from your own
mistakes you know why learn from your
own embarrassment you got to learn from
other people's embarrass that's why we
that's why we have case studies and
isn't that right we're trying to read
from other people's disasters other
people's tragedies nothing makes us
happier than
that have you succeeded getting other
lead leaders at Nvidia to adopt this
practice or is that you know difficult I
let I give people the opportunity to
decide from themselves but I really
discourage 101s I really discourage 101s
nothing nothing is worse than uh uh the
idea that somebody says oh Jensen wants
us to do
this why does that have to be said to
anybody everybody should know and so um
you know or somebody said you know that
e staff said that nothing drives me n
nuttier than that
you um you once told me that you really
didn't like firing people and very
seldom did it can you elaborate on
that well i' rather i' rather improve
you than give up than give up on you you
know when you fire somebody you're kind
of saying you're kind of
saying well you know a lot of people say
Well it it wasn't your fault or or I
made the wrong choice or um there are
very few jobs look I used to clean
bathrooms and now I'm the CEO of a
company I I think I you can learn it I'm
pretty certain you can learn this and
and there are a lot of things in life
that I believe you can learn and you
just have to be given the opportunity to
learn it I had the benefit of watching a
lot of smart people do a lot of things
I'm surrounded by 60 people they're
doing smart things all the time and they
you know they probably don't realize it
but I'm learning constantly from every
single one of them and and so I I don't
like giving up on people because I think
they could they could improve and so
there's a there's there's it's kind of
tongue and cheek but but people know
that rather torture them into
greatness that that that was the phrase
that I was I was hoping to uncover yeah
I remember I remember you mentioned that
yeah so i' rather torture you into
greatness because I believe in you and I
think I think coaches that that really
believe in their in their in their in
their team torture them into greatness
uh and oftentimes they're so close don't
give up they're so close you know
greatness kind of it comes all of a
sudden one day he's like I've got it do
you know what I'm saying that feeling
that you didn't get it yesterday and all
of a sudden one day something collecting
oh got it could you imagine you gave up
that just that moment right before you
got it you know so I don't want you to
give up on that so I does just keep
torturing
you how
um how's your work life
balance well depends on who you
ask uh I I think my my work life balance
is really great
is really great um I work I work as as
as as much as I
can
and I feel like he's judging
me you know the I'm older than you I
have more wisdom than you so what
I these are all the highlights from our
conversations that I think more people
should get to hear
so well I I work as I work from the
moment I wake up to the moment I go to
bed and I I work seven days a week uh
when I'm not working I'm thinking about
working and um when I'm working I'm
working and
so and I I sit through movies but I
don't remember because I'm thinking
about
work you know uh and so that that's be
but my work is not as you know it's not
working as a
uh there's this problem and you're
trying to solve this problem you're
thinking about what the company can be
and um are there things that we could do
even better or sometimes it's just
trying to solve a problem you know but
sometimes you're Imagining the future
and and boy if we did this and that and
it's it working you're fantasizing
you're dreaming you're right I mean
that's incredible how well so to yeah to
concretize this a little bit and and we
will get to talk about AI which I hear
is a thing these days but um it's a
thing yeah officially a thing TM uh but
um to concr concretize this a bit like
just what what's your what do the day in
Jensen's life look like like I used to I
used to wake up at five these days I
wake up at six because of my
dogs and and the reason why six is
somehow we decided that six o'clock is
when they should wake up and and um I
don't know what it is I don't mind
waking anybody up but I feel guilty When
I Wake the puppies up
and and it it actually burdens me you
know and so I don't want to move it
might you know they they they pick up on
any vibration in the you know in the
house and it wakes them up and and so we
kind of stay we stay in bed and I I I
just read in bed until six o'clock and
it's time but you're but you're thinking
about gpus oh yeah yeah yeah sure I'm
obsessed about gpus I mean what can you
do you know I'm
constantly no I'm just
and and then the day is all I guess
group meetings because it can't be one
one meetings yeah I get my work done
before I go to work and then when I get
to work
um and how how many meetings in a
typical
day uh pretty much all day long you know
and so I select the meetings that are
really important to me I try not to have
I try not to have regular meetings
regular operational meetings because
I've got amazing people in the company
who are you know doing regular
operational meetings and so we should be
we we're pinch you know CEOs
are pinch we should be working
on the things that nobody else can or no
nobody else is so you're jumping into
projects that are stuck or off track or
or new ideas or wherever we can move to
needle no reporting no reporting
meetings I hate reporting meetings they
don't to report to me and just problem
meetings and so problem meetings or idea
meetings or brainstorming meetings or
creation meetings or whatever it is you
know those are the meetings I go to and
so usually I call
um I tried I try really hard not to have
Outlook manage my life and so we
purposefully decide what kind of things
that we want to do we want to work on
and so I try to live a life of purpose
and i i u manage my time
accordingly um you used a phrase um once
uh zero billion dollar markets that zero
billion dollar markets are your favorite
markets yeah what do you mean I our if
you if you take a step back our purpose
almost all of our purposes should be to
go and uh do something that has never
been done
before uh that is insanely hard to do
that if you achieve it could make a real
contribution I know your company does
that I try to do that and if that's the
case it hasn't been done before it's
incredibly hard to do it's probably and
it's never been done before that market
is probably 0 billion
in size because has never been done
before I'd rather be a market maker
Market Creator than a market
taker you know to create something new
that never existed before versus
thinking about share I don't love
thinking about share I don't like the
concept of
share and the reason for that is because
if you think if you think about it in
the big picture um uh stripe existed out
of thin air you you VAP vaporized you
created something out of vapor it wasn't
as if there was another you
know something else and so so I I'd like
to think that that we can come up with
something that is a zero billion
dollars and a z billion dollar market is
is a a good way to to cause the company
to think about you know how to go create
something for the first time so our
mission is to grow the GDP of the
internet and I mean the GDP of the
internet kind of um um clause in that
usually gets most of the attention but I
think the most important part is just
the verb grow um uh because to your
point we shouldn't be thinking about
well you know which are the transactions
that are already happening or which are
the businesses that already exist we
should be thinking about which are the
transactions that don't exist and which
are the businesses that don't exist you
know the GDP of the world is you know
around 100 trillion dollar but it
doesn't have to be1 trillion it could be
$200 trillion or a, trillion dollar
that's exactly
that's exactly right and most most of
the value we're going to create over the
next several decades are likely not
limited by physical things you know and
so so this is a pretty extraordinary
time and so with this concept of zero
billion billion dollar markets if I'm
again at Nvidia am I coming to you with
some proposal for some project and maybe
there's several billion dollars of capex
involved or you know many it's a many
year pursuit or something and and there
there are no there are no customers for
it today there's no demand that I can
demonstrate for it and you guys are just
making a gut call and to say that yes
nobody's doing this today we think they
could we think they should and therefore
we're going to pursue it really close
yeah it's kind of like that and it's
it's a gut call in the sense that that
your intuition says something as a
starting thesis but then you have to
reason through it and the reasoning of
it is much much more important to me
than a spreadsheet I hate spreadsheets
because you can make spreadsheets do
whatever you you can make any chart you
want out of a spreadsheet you just got
to type in some numbers and so I don't
love spreadsheets for that reason I love
words for that reason words are
reasoning tell me how did you reason
through this you know what's our
intuition why do we be believe that
matters why do we think it's hard I like
hard things because it takes a long time
to do and if it takes a long time to
do a lot of people who are you know less
committed probably won't do it um uh if
it's really really hard to do it takes a
long time to do it takes a really
resilient and a really dedicated really
committed person to go after it and um
and if it also takes a long time to do
you can kind of flounder around for a
couple years nobody notice you know and
so so you could be I could be
incompetent for for several years and
everybody goes well who saw it you know
and where did UDA come
from uh Cuda came originally from uh two
ideas one is
called
um I hate to get technical but but uh we
created we pioneered this idea called
accelerated Computing accelerated
Computing is like a um an IO device
something that you sit on PCI Express if
anybody's in the computer business an IO
device that
allows uh the application to interact
with that IO device in such a way as to
accelerate parts of the
application and UDA is was an invention
in 1993 and it's really profound
invention allows the software programmer
to directly program an IO device write
an application directly to the io device
because the io device is virtualized and
it's uh uh and it's it it's um
architecturally compatible across
multiple Generations it's uh you know
anyways we invented this idea called
accelerated Computing and that was we
called it unified driver architecture
for whatever
reason and then um uh several years
later we thought we could make our gpus
more programmable to high level
programming languages and we invented
this idea called
CG C for graphics Okay C for gra for
graphics
processors and um uh that opened up some
some really exciting uh uh opportunities
and we we thought you know what this is
this is going to work but CG the
programming model wasn't exactly right
and so we extended we invented Cuda
which is compute with you know so
anyways that's how it's a horrible story
frankly anyways we invented this idea
called accelerated computer we pioneered
this approach was it was it I guess the
real question is was it a Smash Hit
overnight no it was it was a it was a um
it was an incredible disaster overnight
um and and it kind of went like this
this is one of your Z billion dollar
markets you went after yeah and it was a
disaster yeah because it was a z billion
dollar we went after but it cost so much
to go after that Z billion dollar market
it actually crushed the1 billion Doll
Market we were enjoying and so and the
reason for that is because because uh uh
Cuda added a ton of cost into our chips
but there were no applications
and there are no applications customers
don't value the product and they won't
pay you a premium for it and if people
aren't willing to pay you for it but
your costs went up then your gross
margins get crushed and we got our
market
cap uh was low and it went down to
really low it was like I think our
market cap went down to like a billion
dollars or something like that I wish I
bought it but anyways okay and so
therefore you immediately canceled Cuda
and went back to the old strategy
no no I believed in Cuda I because you
reasoned about it you reasoned about it
look we really believe that that um
accelerated Computing was going to be
able to to solve problems that that
normal computers couldn't and if we
wanted to extend the architecture to be
much more general purpose we had to make
we had to make that we had to make that
sacrifice and so I I um I deeply
believed in in uh the the mission of of
our company I deeply believed in in its
opportunities and so we're anal I deeply
deeply believe that people were wrong
they just didn't appreciate what we
built I deeply believed it and so
weren't analysts and the board and
employee like you you've you know
torpedo this existing Revenue stream
you've this you know hyped thing that
you know you're selling a lofty uh dream
around that nobody seems to actually
want the business is really suffering
you
know talk us through that you
believed you just go go something like
this oh gosh they're so
[Laughter]
dumb something like that you know you
you you denial no I'm just kidding no
you you go back to what you believe and
if you believe something did the board
put put pressure on you during
this they I start every conversation
with what I deeply
believed and and and uh and they
believed it you know because they saw me
deeply believe it and I reasoned about
it the wasn't a it wasn't it wasn't like
it was a spreadsheet and therefore you
got to believe the spreadsheet they had
to believe the reasoning the words how
how long did it take it to start
working um probably 10 years
yeah it wasn't that long
yeah 10 years it comes and
goes 10 years Le less than a third of
your tenure yeah it comes and goes it
was I barely remembered it you know the
suffering I barely remembered it could
um could Nvidia be as successful in AI
without Cuda no impossible it was it it
is it is potentially one of the most
important inventions in modern Computing
uh we invented this idea called
accelerated Computing and and the idea
is so simple but deeply profound it says
the vast majority a small percentage of
the code of
programs occupies consumes
99.999% of the
runtime and this is true for a lot of
very important applications and that
that small little kernel that small
little kernel or you know some several
kernels uh uh can be accelerated and
they tend they you know it's not all
just parallel processing it's not as
simple as that but the idea is that we
can take that kernel that piece of
software that part of the software and
accelerate The Living Daylights out of
it and and today when mors law has run
its course and CPU scaling is is
basically stopped and if we don't
accelerate every software uh you're
going to see extraordinary computation
inflation because the amount of
computation the world does is doubling
every year still and yet if CPUs and
general purpose computers are not
increasing in performance because it's
stopped then what's your alternative
where your cost of computing is going to
keep going up exponentially and so the
time has come for us to do that and so
everyone here runs a business H and
accelerate everything and you heard here
first um and uh and probably everyone
has you know some version of Cuda for
you a thing that they think uh really
makes sense for the sector makes sense
for their technology or what have you um
but where the market doesn't see it yet
do you think it's possible to extract
any kind of generalizable principles
around when you should really doggedly
trust that vision and when perhaps it's
worth you know reconsidering in a
fashion that yeah we could extrapolate
from in the case of Cuda and other cudas
that have existed over the course of
nvidia's history yeah it's the question
is uh determination and commitment
versus
stubbornness and that that that line is
fuzzy um I look I I gut checked against
my core beliefs every day I still do and
you you gut check against it um the
first principles by which you reasoned
about your strategies the first
principles by which you reason about
your strategies those first principles
are easy to
remember and and it's not a long
list and um uh now the question is are
those those principles did they change
in some fundamental way uh are external
conditions such that they no longer
matter as much as before did somebody
else solve the problem and therefore
that problem has now disappeared uh you
know is is it is it uh there will never
be any need um you gut check it right
constantly and and to the extent that
that's number one gut check you have to
first of all you really have to be
careful to distill down the first
principles instead of I want something
that's
stubbornness you can't reason about it I
just want it you know we're not
five-year olds right and so and and uh
and so you got to reason about it number
one number two you have to be clever the
fact of the matter is there are lot of
new companies being created here it's
amazing how many great companies you
know are in the
audience and young companies in the
audience uh you have to be clever and so
we found ways to um monetize even even
even even in a small way Cuda and so we
we found uh we looked everywhere for
applications we found an application
with CT reconstruction we found an
application with seismic processing we
found another application with molecular
Dynamics uh you know and so we're
constantly looking for applications they
didn't they didn't make it a a home run
but it sustained us just enough just
enough and and uh bought us time for it
to Really Happen yeah okay so let's talk
about uh about AI um may just to kind of
do some math to ground things here uh
let's just say that the total um sort of
compute capacity uh of all gpus in the
world today is X um what do you think uh
what do you think what what multiple of
X will we be at in five
years first of all you know that I'm
going to regret saying
this and this is be I'm a public company
you crazy
person see this is here here's this is
how how nice is it to be private
[Applause]
safe to say considerably
more well let's reason about it shall we
okay so let's let's reason about it
let's reason our way through okay so
first of all it goes like this uh the
world has installed about a trillion
dollars with the data centers those
trillion dollars with the data centers
use as general Pur general purpose
Computing general purpose Computing is
run as course we cannot continue to
process that way and so the world is
going to accelerate everything data
processing you name it okay and so we're
going to accelerate everything when we
accelerate everything every single data
center every single computer will be an
accelerated server well there's about a
trillion dollars worth of computers if
we don't grow at all um over the next
call it four years that we have to go
replace four years six years pick your
pick your number of years but if if the
computer industry continues to grow at
some 20% or so um we'll probably have to
replace over the course of next you know
pick your number of years about $2
trillion with of computers with
accelerated Computing so just make that
gpus okay um that's number one and this
is the second part this is this is the
reason why um all of you stripe you're
on to something just absolutely
Monumental this
idea this idea called an you know you've
heard me say an industrial revolution
let me tell you why we are producing
something for the very first time that
has never been produced before and we're
producing at an extremely high volume
and the production of this thing
requires a new instrument that never
existed before it's a
GPU and the thing that we're producing
for the very first time for the
mathematicians and all the computer
scientists in the room for all of you
you know that we're producing tokens
we're producing floating Point numbers
at high volume for the first time in
history and the floating Point numbers
have value the reason why they have
value is because it's intelligence it's
artificial intelligence
you can take these important floating
Point numbers you reformulate it in such
a way that it turns into English French
proteins chemicals Graphics images
videos Robotic articulation steering
wheel articulation we producing tokens
at extraordinary scale now we've
discovered a way through all of the work
that we do with artificial intelligence
to produce tokens of almost any kind so
now the world is going to produce prod
an enormous amount of tokens now these
tokens are going to be produced in new
types of data centers we call them AI
factories back in the last Industrial
Revolution water comes into a a machine
you light the water on fire right turn
it into steam you know and then it turns
into electrons atoms come in electrons
go out in this new Industrial Revolution
electrons come in and floating Point
numbers come out and just like the last
Industrial Revolution nobody understood
why these electricity is so valuable and
is now sold right marketed kilowatt
kilowatt hours you know per dollar and
so now we have you know million tokens
per dollar and so that same logic is as
incomprehensible to a lot of people as
the last Industrial Revolution but it's
going to be completely normal in the
next 10 years well these these tokens
these tokens are going to create
new products new Services enhanced
productivity on whole slew of Industries
a hundred trillion dollar worth of
Industries on top of us and so this
industry is going to be gigantic and in
order to to monetize that transact that
you're going to need stripe and
so I got tell you this is one of my
favorite
companies the first time I met Patrick
he had to explain to me I was first of
all it was so
complicated tried to refine the uh the
descriptions of time but all you're in a
complicated business no matter what uh
but nonetheless I was I was uh so
inspired by it it's incredible what you
guys have built are we going to get you
uh migrated to strip billing now that we
have usage based billing and I wish I
had a business that required
billing I think your public filing
suggests you're doing a lot of billing
we'll follow up in it um all right so um
it's only 10 transactions just so you
know your e your your economics serving
us is like nothing it's like 10
transactions we'd happily take the 2.9%
but
any we can discuss that separately um
so so done thinking about this to you
can't say that you're public company um
so um so thinking about these these you
know token factories um I feel like a
big question right now is whether the
models saturate in the sense that you
know we demoed the sigma assistant on
stage earlier and know you can write
them natural language and we convert
that to SQL and going from you know a
maybe a seven billion parameter model to
a 70 billion parameter model or
something like that might you know there
might be a significant kind of uh
consequential Improvement in query
accuracy for the user for the typical
kinds of queries that people tend to
construct but maybe going to a model
that's 10x larger than that is sort of
unnecessary like at some point you get
to good enough you can reliably convert
the natural language to equal I think
there's a question of you know for the
use cases for which LMS are being
deployed you know what what does that
saturation curve look like and for how
many use cases does one need a trillion
parameter model or a 10 trillion
parameter model or do we simply reach a
point where you know some number that is
say less than 100 TR 100 billion is
sufficient do you have any point of view
on that or is that even you know a
reasonable way to look at the question
um in the first place okay let's break
it down let's reason
about in public appr almost everything
every question I get okay let's break it
down let's reason about uh so let's
start with an
example in 2012 Alex net was uh computer
vision image net uh image recognition
82% or something like that accuracy over
the
next almost not quite 10 years I think
it was like seven years uh every single
year the
accuracy error reduced in half right
every every year the error reduced in
half or otherwise known as mors law okay
so so you double the performance you
double the
accuracy um and you double its
believability uh every single year over
the course of seven years it's now
superhuman same thing with speech
recognition same things with with uh
natural language understanding uh we
want to know we want to believe not no
we want to believe that the answer
that's being predicted to us is accurate
we want to believe that and so the
industry is going to chase um that
believability or that accuracy uh and
and double its accuracy uh two acts
every year I believe that's going to
same thing that's going to be the same
thing with natural language
understanding and of course the problems
the problem space is a lot more
complicated but I have every certainty
that we're going to double its accuracy
every single year to the point where it
is so accurate and we've we've largely
tested across many of your examples when
you interact with it that you go you
know what this is really really good I
believe the answer that it's producing
for me that condition is very important
the second thing is
this
um today's language models today's Ai
and everything that we we've shown are
one
shot and yet you and I both know that
there are many things that we think
about that are not one shot you have to
iterate and so how do you come up how do
you reason about a plan how do you uh
come up with a a strategy to solve a
problem uh maybe you need to use tools
maybe you have to look up some
proprietary data maybe uh you have to do
some research in fact maybe you have to
ask another agent maybe you have another
ask another AI maybe you have to be
human in Loop ask a human uh trigger an
event send an email to somebody or text
to somebody get a response before you
can move on to the next step of that of
that plan and so a large language model
has to iterate and think of a
plan that's not a one-hot thing and once
it comes up with the plan as it
traverses that graph um there's a whole
bunch of language models that are going
to get instantiated in initiate and so I
think your your future models are going
to iterate and so instead of instead of
just a instead of a a onot model it's
going to be a planning model with a
whole whole bunch of other models around
it that are particular good at
particular skills so I think we have
long ways to go um M garnered a lot of
attention last week for the release of
llama 3 which seems to be the most
impressive open source model as far yeah
any thoughts on open source
models if you ask me uh what are what
are what are the top most important
events in the last couple of years I
would tell you of course chat GPT uh
reinforcement learning human feedback
grounding into human values and having
the technology necessary to do that
obviously a breakthrough um and and uh
democratized uh Computing it made it
possible for everybody to be a
programmer everybody's now doing amazing
things with it uh chat gbt um the work
that open AI did you know Greg and Sam
and the team really proud of them uh the
second thing that I would say that it
that is is uh just as important I would
say is llama not not llama one but llama
two llama
2 activated just about every industry to
jump into uh working on generative Ai
and it it U opened the floodgates of
every industry being able to access this
technology Health Care Financial
Services you know you name it
manufacturing you name it customer
service retail you know all kinds I
think Lama 2 llama 2 and llama 3 because
it's open sourced it engaged research
and engaged startups engaged industry it
it made generative AI accessible I think
that's a very big deal and so I think
Chad gbt democratized Computing I think
llama democratized G to AI does that
make sense and I I think I think without
it it's very hard to have activated all
of the research on safety and um all of
the different ways of change of thought
and you know all the reasoning
technology that's that's now being
developed and all the reinforcement
learning stuff and you know
that stuff would have been very hard to
have activated without llama um Dario
mode was on Ezra Klein's podcast um two
weeks ago uh And he as many others have
uh many others in particular were you
know involved with Frontier Labs um was
uh was predicting AGI in the relatively
near term conceivably the next couple of
years you know years like 2027 and so on
are frequently thrown around
thoughts uh if You' depending on how you
define AGI now first of all as an
engineer you know that we we can only
solve a problem ultimately if you can
measure
it and so you have to express the
problem statement the mission somehow in
some some measurable way if you if you
told me that AGI is the list of
benchmarks we currently use their math
test and English UNC comprehension test
and reasoning test and you
know right you got medical exams and
bars and you make your list of all of
the tests that you want it doesn't
matter what what it is just make your
list if you make your list I am certain
we will achieve excellent results in a
very nominal amount of time and if
that's the definition of AGI I will I
I'll make a guess it's probably
definitely within the next 5 years and
so all of the tests that we currently
measure measure these model with um
they're they're improving their accuracy
or their error rate is half is reducing
in half every six months and so there's
no no reason why we shouldn't expect it
all to be superum pretty soon so again
everyone in this Audi that doesn't that
doesn't that doesn't meet the standard
just be clear that doesn't meet the
standard of a normal person thinking
it's AGI does that make sense a a you
know on the street person uh you hey AGI
that's probably not what they're
thinking what what I defined it as the
way I defined it is simply an
engineering way of defining it so that
you can answer that question the second
way of answering the question is when
can you achieve AGI in an undefined way
if it's undefinable then then how long
would you know how long would it take
undefinable and so everyone in this
audience again runs a business uh and a
practical question theywe all face is um
you know how do you how do you know if
you're in the face of the kinds of
changes you just depicted um how does
one know how can one know whether one is
responding appropriately sufficiently in
the right ways
Etc any advice if you're not engaging AI
um actively and aggressively you're
doing it
wrong you're not going to lose your job
to AI you're going to lose your job to
somebody who uses
AI your company is not going to go out
of business because of AI your company
is going to go out of business
because another company used AI there's
no question about that and so you have
to engage your AI as quickly as possible
you have to engage AI as quickly as
possible so that you could do um things
that you uh think cost too much to do
for example if the marginal cost of
intelligence was uh practically zero
there are a lot of things that you would
do you would do now that you wouldn't
have done otherwise and so notice how
how often we do search and U these days
no not how often we ask questions you
know I I don't any random question I'll
be asking perplexity right and so why
not just Arin just gave a gave a talk
here at sessions okay I I I love I love
using it and even if I know the answer
I'll just ask it
anyways you know just to see what it
comes up with and and so I I think um uh
we we want that to happen we want the
marginal cost of of these type of
activities to be as low as possible so
that you use it in abundance second
if you could use AI to be productive
uh you know that that productive
companies leads to higher earnings
higher earnings leads to more
employment more employment leads to more
social growth and so there's there's a
lot of reasons to to want to drive
productivity into companies um apart
from just changing your um manufacturing
plans and your capex plans how has AI
changed how Nvidia Works
internally we were one of the first
technology companies to invest in our
own AI
supercomputers uh we can't design a chip
anymore without
AI at night our AIS are exploring design
spaces uh vast and wide that we would
never do ourselves because it cost too
much money to explore and and so we we
we um uh our chips are so much better
because of an AI we could reduce the
amount of energy used for our chips it's
higher performance um uh our software we
can't write software without without AI
anymore we have to explore all the you
know the design space of of of
optimizing compilers is too large uh we
use AIS to uh uh file bugs so our bug
you know our bugs database uh actually
tells you who's you know what's wrong
with the code who's likely involved and
activates that person to go fix it you
know so and so I I think uh we I want
everybody every organization our company
to use AI very aggressively I want I
want to turn nid into a one giant AI how
great would that be and then I'll have
work life
balance um are there any favorite
examples you've heard of uh businesses
and maybe in some kind of unexpected
sector some unexpected use case where
you feel that they kind of can can serve
as a poster child for some of the
Dynamics you're describing uh where
they've they've really realized uh some
of um some of this
opportunity well the the biggest
surprise of AI that shouldn't be a
surprise um for a lot of people is is um
that that when we say it's a large
language model the word language doesn't
mean human language only and it doesn't
mean English only or French only or you
know or Irish only or that's a whole
different language but but
um is there a large language model for
Irish um i' I've tried it the um the um
yeah it works well um
uh John and I were uh were spent most of
our education in Ireland being taught in
Irish uh and so uh um these these models
are some of the the first people um I've
had the chance to you know have a
dialogue with you know asga H in in you
know very surprising many years they do
well and actually have enjoy have you
played with suo suoo suo is um is a an
app for creating music um uh because
synthetic music okay uh and uh I've been
enjoying cre Irish music I of course
tested it on that and Celtic dubstep is
a thing that it can
do fantastic okay makes sense like if it
could if it could do that then of course
it could learn the the language of
Life of course they can learn the and if
you could if you if a language model can
understand sound which is a sequence
time series it's a sequence um why can't
it learn uh robotic articulation which
is a sequence you just have to you have
to you just figure out how to tokenize
it and so the idea that that all of a
sudden oh hey look listen I could also
learn SQL I can learn abap I can learn
lightning I can learn all these
proprietary languages can learn barlog I
can learn right so all of a sudden you
realized hang on a second I can put a
co-pilot on top of every tool on the
planet well and to this point and you
know inid being one big AI um like is
the future one of a 100,000 models or
100 million models or is the future one
of one model and they're just like a
model that does all the things I think
that that it would be great to have um a
to it would be great to have super
models that help you reason about things
in general
but for us for all companies that that
have very specific domain specific
expertise we're going to have to train
our own models and the reason for that
is because we have a proprietary
language that difference between 99% and
99.3% is the difference between life and
death for us and so it's too valuable to
us no different than fraud detection for
you too important to you that that's
been exactly our our experience yeah
it's too important to you however good
uh the general model is you're going to
want to take that and fine-tune it and
right improve it into Perfection because
it's just too important to you yeah and
so we're we're going to shortly run out
of time here and there's a whole bunch
of questions I haven't gotten to yet um
I've um I've exercised poor discipline
on the time management front so um
there's a bunch that I think are I was
told I definitely had to ask you um but
there's a couple that I really wanted to
ask and it's only us up here so um so um
Lisa Su is your first cousin once
removed yes yeah she's terrific she's
amazing and um and AMD is now she's the
CEO of AMD by the way yeah and AMD is
now one of your competitors in the GPU
space no
we're
family okay we're all in the we're all
in the industry we're in the industry
one of your partners in the industry
yeah yeah okay we buy from AMD what
what's going on in the water how did we
end up with two of the arguably the two
most important you know GPU companies
being run by close relatives what's
going
on you got to keep it close to the
family no I have no idea how it happened
uh we we didn't grow up to together and
I we didn't more interesting right yeah
yeah we didn't even know each other
until until she was at IBM and and and
uh her career is incredible and she's
really quite an
extraordinary I think this question
further study um so um okay you you've
been operating in Silicon Valley since
the early 90s yes um how is Silicon
Valley culture changed in that
time oh wow um
I haven't thought about this in a long
time I I guess in a lot of ways in a lot
of ways
probably I okay here here's one I you
when I first started started Nvidia um I
was 29 years old and uh you know I was
29 years old with with
acne and and um and I you know you go
talk to your talk to your go recruit you
know law firms and and VCS and you know
I got a big zit on my forehead and and
uh I don't have one today so I I feel
comfortable talking about it and but it
could it could happen and so so
anyways you feel rather insecure because
most of CEOs back then wore suits and
they're quite accomplished and they
sound like adults and they use big words
and they talk about business and things
like that and and so when you're when
you're young you feel rather intimidated
you're surrounded by a bunch of adults
well you know now if you don't have
acne I don't think you deserve to start
a
[Applause]
company um I just that's one big
difference acne you know the take away
to take away from gent speech I I just
what it means is really it we've we've
enabled younger people to to be
extraordinary I I think the the Young
Generation of CEOs the type of things
that you guys know at such a such a
young age is really quite extraordinary
I mean it took me decades to learn it
and so last question um that was a
compliment see how he quickly changed
the I wasn't saying you have acne I was
just saying you were
smart um Nvidia has a market cap of uh
of roughly $2 trillion dolls uh and uh
uh
you're um now within spitting distance
of apple and Microsoft um and I just
checked and they have um uh 220,000 and
160,000 uh employees respectively um uh
Nvidia has 28,000 employees so uh so you
know less than a fifth of the smaller of
the two there um and then you just said
when we were chatting backstage and I um
I jotted this down uh you can achieve
operational excellence through process
but craft can only be Achi achieved with
tenure and so Nvidia is considerably
smaller than any of the um the other
Giants and you seem to think that tenure
really matters and I guess that craft
really matters you want to say a say a
little bit more
there
um the I I think I think extraordinary I
think a lot of good things could be made
good things are made with operational
excellence and uh but you can't make
extraordinary things through just
operational excellence and the reason
for that is because a lot of the a lot
of the great things in in um uh in your
body of work and the products that you
make the company you created uh the
organizations you've
nurtured it takes it takes loving
care you and you can't even put it in
words how do you put how do you put
Loving Care in an email you know and for
people to go oh I know exactly what to
do uh you can't put that in in you know
you can't put that in a business process
love and care and is is is love and care
kind of an Nvidia
catchphrase well I I use I use I use
love uh fairly fairly abundantly and um
care I use abundantly uh right we talk a
lot about craft and Beauty yeah right
you have to use these words because
because that in a lot of ways there
there are no other words to describe it
you can't put in numbers you can't write
it in the product specification the
product specification says I want you to
buildt something great that's incredibly
beautiful that you know Inc great craft
you can't specify these things and so
but I'm sure there's people that strive
who think you know Patrick's always
yammering on about craft and beauty and
it's this kind of I never Yammer I just
want to let you know that I don't even
know what that sounds like okay well
yeah yammering on go ahead go ahead yeah
you're you're more Lucid than than I am
I just Babble but he so Patrick is
always going on about this craft and bue
stuff and you wants things to uh you
know have this particular ineffable char
ctor but it doesn't directly serve some
customer need and so forth like
customers aren't coming to us and saying
I want the product to be more beautiful
they're saying I wanted to feature X or
feature Y and yet you know we believe
that the craft and Beauty really matters
sounds like you're getting at something
similar why do you think it
matters actually actually uh your
customers even though they didn't say it
they might not have to words to say it
but when they experience it they know
it there's no question uh look look I
Stripes work uh has Beauty has Elegance
has has Simplicity um Simplicity is not
simple as you guys know Simplicity and
simple are not not the same thing and uh
it has elegance and and it's you know it
solves the problem but just enough uh it
burdens you but not too much you know
and and so that right and that balance
is hard to find and you can't specify
that you just feel your way there and
and when you have a team that are that's
with you that feels the way they're
together in a lot of ways we've codified
we've
encoded the magic of the company in a
way that no words can describe and you
don't want to lose that you don't want
to lose that you want to take that and
take it to the next level next time and
so I don't I don't want to reset I don't
like working with new people for that
reason because I've encoded I've
embodied I've deposited so much pain
suffering Joy knowledge right all that
experience life experience you've
encoded it in all the people that you've
worked with you want to carry it on you
want to take it to the next level and
that's that's really the reason why I I
really deeply believe in tenure uh and
uh uh because of that small teams could
do great things and Nvidia is kind of a
small team we're 28,000 people people
think we punch well above our our our
weight because of that reason you know
and so it's amazing what you guys have
done and how how incredibly small you
are 7,000 people supporting a trillion
dollars worth of ecosystem and and
Industry and you know and economy and
you know who who knows how far you guys
can go so I'm very proud of you Jensen
thank you